---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Chief Financial Officer (Institutional)",
  "department": "FINANCE & ACCOUNTS",
  "division": "CORPORATE / SHARED FUNCTIONS",
  "yoe_band": "12+",
  "seniority_label": "Vice President / Chief Officer",
  "source_doc": "CFO JD.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

Leadership Role – Chief Financial Officer (CFO)
Client Introduction:
Our client is a non-profit organization (Education Society) dedicated to providing quality education to students in India. Established in 1935, they operate several educational institutions in Gujarat, including schools, colleges, professional institutes, and universities. The organization is committed to promoting excellence in education by providing modern infrastructure, innovative teaching methodologies, and an inclusive learning environment. They are well-respected in the Indian education sector and have a reputation for producing successful graduates who are equipped with the skills and knowledge to make a positive impact on society.
They are the largest academic trusts in Gujarat, providing quality education from kindergarten to post graduation; 25 institutions catering to over 10,000 college students and 3,000 school children. These institutes offer exemplary tutelage in fields as diverse as Arts, Commerce, Science, Pharmacy, Architecture, Planning, Business Administration, Computer Application, Management and more.
Designation: Chief Financial Officer
Reporting: Chairman, Board of Governors
Location: Ahmedabad
Purpose of the Role:
To oversee the financial management of the education society.
Develop and manage the annual budget and long-term financial plans.
Provide strategic financial guidance to the senior leadership team and Board of Governors.
Analyze financial data and provide recommendations to improve the financial performance.
Ensure the accuracy and integrity of financial records and compliance with all financial reporting requirements.
Oversee the investment and debt management programs.
Manage the financial risk, including financial modeling and forecasting.
Develop and implement financial policies and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Oversee the procurement and contracts management activities.
Manage the financial relationships with external stakeholders, including lenders, investors, and donors.
Lead and manage the finance team, including hiring, training, and performance management.
Key KPI:
Financial Performance: Responsible for ensuring the financial health of the organization; revenue growth, profitability, cash flow management, and cost management.
Risk Management: Identifying and mitigating risks that may impact the financial performance of the organization; risk exposure and risk mitigation strategies.
Strategic Planning: Developing and implementing the financial strategy of the organization; financial planning and analysis, capital allocation, and return on investment (ROI).
Compliance: Ensuring the organization complies with all financial regulations and standards; audit outcomes, regulatory compliance, and financial reporting accuracy.
Team Management: Leading and managing the finance team; productivity, employee engagement, and talent retention.
Qualification & Experience:
CA with 25 to 30 years of experience.
Experience of working in premier universities, educational institutes is desirable
Candidate background
Strong leadership, communication, and interpersonal skills.
Excellent analytical and problem-solving skills.
Ability to work in a fast-paced environment and manage multiple priorities.
Experience in the education sector is desirable.
About Stanton Chase
Stanton Chase International is a truly global executive search firm. Over the past decade, we have grown into a close-knit multinational consulting team operating in every continent and able to actualize one of our guiding principles - to think globally but act locally. With around four hundred people in 75 offices across 45 countries we are positioned as one of the top 10 executive search firms worldwide. We operate across 9 functional practices and all our consultants have had a successful career in their industry sector before joining the firm.
We pride ourselves on our track record of delivery and believe that honesty, integrity, and trust are the key ingredients behind the successful partnerships we have with our clients.
Singapore 	I 	Mumbai 	I 	Bengaluru 	I 	New Delhi 	I 	Kolkata
Contacts:
Amit Agarwal, Managing Director, India, Southeast Asia | +65 8428 1074/ | a.agarwal@stantonchase.com
Mala Chawla, Managing Partner, Singapore & India I +91 77108 30055 | mala.chawla@stantonchase.com
Adarsh Nigam, Partner, India & Singapore | +91 98201 00306 | a.nigam@stantonchase.com
www.StantonChase.com