---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Chief Information Officer",
  "department": "INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY",
  "division": "CORPORATE / SHARED FUNCTIONS",
  "yoe_band": "12+",
  "seniority_label": "Vice President / Chief Officer",
  "source_doc": "CIO.docx, Chief Info and Digital Officer.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

Role
Chief Information Officer
Grade
BM
Division
Corporate
Location
Ahmedabad
Department
IT
Vacancy Date
25/6/2014
Reports to
Administrative
Reportees
Function
Team Size
CTC Range : 50 to 60 Lacs
Key Purpose of the Job
To lead IT as business function focusing on Process innovations, Business Model setup, Business Engagements, IT Management – governance setup, with specialization in Business Intelligence and functional skills. Create an environment for Business Excellence through IT enablers.
Major responsibilities:
IT Management:
Responsible for leading and providing strategic direction for developing business applications.
Prepare IT Budgets and ensure compliance to IT budget, optimized resource utilization and setup IT organization.
Responsible for driving projects and tracking budgets and KRAs
To synergize & align IT applications to businesses & Group.
Help business to reduce overall operation cost by process revamping, process automations etc.
Led a team of members in managing IT Infrastructure,  Business Application ,ERP activities across the businesses
Vendor management for managing IT facilities & for procurement of IT Infrastructure
Setup of IT organization structure, Recruitment of right talent
Technology Evaluation:
Develop IT Roadmap, IT Policy and Standards for the Group.
Establish network across locations
Disaster Recovery System, assuring near zero downtime.
Institutionalize key processes in Operations, Security, Support, Documentation, etc
Project management and support to SAP implementations and up-gradations.
Evaluate emerging technologies for deployment across the Group and for providing technology related information to business.
Information Security :
In the role of CIO, develop Information Security Policy for the Group, establish Governance structure and measurement processes.
Improve the baseline of security across the Group at minimal cost and time.
Management of outsourcing for IT Facility management services across the group.
IT Procurement with effective evaluation and negotiation while adopting stringent Service level agreements.
Knowledge Management and Competency Development:
Develop IT competencies of team, through job analysis & skill evaluation and by delivering training (Class Room & e-learning).
Implementation and maintenance of Knowledge management systems and document management systems.
Interactions
Internal	: Head of Dept. or Functional Heads, Business CEOs
External	:	 Vendors
Educational and Experience
Graduate in any discipline /   B.Tech  in Computers, IT , BCA
PG Degree IT Management
Certificate Course related to the job.
Minimum 20  years of experience in IT Dept. and in Manufacturing Industry, should have experience of at-least 3 years in handling IT function for diversified Group.
Skills and Competencies
Inter- personal Skills
Conflict Management
Execution Skills
Negotiation Skills
Strategic Thinker
Leadership Skills

Job Title: Chief Information and Digital Officer (CIDO)
Department: IT
Reports To: Chief Finance Officer (CFO)
Job Overview: The CIDO is a strategic leader responsible for driving digital transformation and managing the organization’s information technology. The role involves overseeing digital strategy, innovation, and IT infrastructure to ensure alignment with the company’s goals.
Responsibilities:
Develop and execute a comprehensive digital strategy that aligns with the organization’s vision and business objectives.
Lead the IT department, setting objectives and strategies for the use of technology within the organization.
Drive digital innovation and serve as a change agent, fostering a culture of continuous improvement and digital-first mindset.
Collaborate with other stake holders to integrate digital initiatives with business processes and strategies.
Oversee the management of digital projects, ensuring they deliver value and meet ROI expectations.
Stay abreast of emerging technologies and digital trends to maintain a competitive edge and recommend new technologies that will benefit the organization.
Ensure the security and compliance of digital and information systems.
Attract, develop, and retain top digital talent to build a high-performing digital team.
Identify and prepare road map for deploying Robotic processes in various functions like manufacturing, procurement, warehouse etc.
Qualifications:
Proven experience as a CIDO, CIO, CTO, or similar leadership role in digital transformation and IT management in diversified Industries.
Strong understanding of digital technologies, including cloud computing, data analytics, cybersecurity, and enterprise software.
Excellent leadership and communication skills, with the ability to influence and engage stakeholders at all levels.
Strategic thinker with a track record of developing and implementing digital strategies that drive business growth.
SAP Implementation Exposure
Bachelor’s or Master’s degree in Information Technology, Computer Science, Business Administration, or related field.
Team size : 40