---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Legal Entity Controller",
  "department": "FINANCE & ACCOUNTS",
  "division": "CORPORATE / SHARED FUNCTIONS",
  "yoe_band": "8–12",
  "seniority_label": "Deputy General Manager / General Manager",
  "source_doc": "Legal Entity Controller.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

Job Title: Legal Entity Controller – Global Capability Centre (GCC)
Location: Ahmedabad, India
Company: Arvind Limited
Role Overview
We are establishing a Global Capability Centre (GCC) to support group businesses and are looking for a Legal Entity Controller to lead the finance, accounting, and compliance framework for the GCC entity.
The role will be responsible for end-to-end financial governance of the GCC legal entity, including statutory accounting, taxation, transfer pricing, and cross-charge allocations to group companies. The position will play a critical role in establishing robust financial controls, compliance standards, and reporting mechanisms in alignment with group policies.
Key Responsibilities
Financial Accounting & Reporting
Lead end-to-end accounting and financial management for the GCC legal entity.
Ensure accurate monthly, quarterly, and annual financial reporting in compliance with applicable accounting standards and group policies.
Oversee general ledger management, reconciliations, financial close, and audit readiness.
Establish strong internal controls and financial governance frameworks for the GCC.
Taxation & Regulatory Compliance
Ensure full compliance with direct and indirect tax regulations, including:
GST
TDS
Corporate tax filings
Manage tax assessments, audits, and liaison with tax authorities.
Coordinate with external advisors on regulatory and compliance matters.
Transfer Pricing & Intercompany Allocations
Manage transfer pricing framework for services provided by the GCC to various group entities.
Design and administer cost allocation and cross-charge mechanisms across business units.
Ensure compliance with transfer pricing regulations and documentation requirements.
Work closely with group finance teams to ensure alignment with global policies.
Audit & Governance
Lead statutory audits, internal audits, and tax audits for the GCC entity.
Implement and monitor financial controls and risk mitigation processes.
Ensure adherence to corporate governance and compliance standards.
Systems & Process Excellence
Drive finance operations on SAP ERP, ensuring data integrity and efficient financial processes.
Establish scalable finance processes suitable for a growing GCC environment.
Stakeholder Management
Partner with Group Finance, Tax, and Business Finance teams across the organization.
Act as the primary finance point of contact for the GCC entity.
Support leadership with financial insights, budgeting, and cost management.
Candidate Profile
Qualifications
Chartered Accountant (CA) – Mandatory
10–12 years of experience in controllership, taxation, and financial governance
Experience
Strong experience in GST, TDS, corporate taxation, and transfer pricing
Experience managing intercompany cross-charges and allocation models
Hands-on experience with SAP ERP
Experience in shared services / GCC / multi-entity environments preferred
Key Competencies
Strong financial controllership and compliance orientation
Expertise in Indian taxation and regulatory environment
Ability to build finance processes from ground up
Strong stakeholder management and cross-functional collaboration
High degree of ownership, integrity, and attention to detail