---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Procure to Pay (P2P)",
  "department": "FINANCE & ACCOUNTS",
  "division": "CORPORATE / SHARED FUNCTIONS",
  "yoe_band": "8–12",
  "seniority_label": "Deputy General Manager / General Manager",
  "source_doc": "Manager - P2P.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

JOB DESCRIPTION
Job Title: Manager – Procure to Pay (P2P)
Location: Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India
Department: Finance & Accounts – GCC
Employment Type: Full-Time
Role Type: Team Manager
About the Role:
We are looking for a detail-oriented and process-driven Associate Manager – Procure to Pay (P2P) to support end-to-end P2P operations within a Shared Services environment of a leading Indian conglomerate. The role requires hands-on expertise across invoice processing, vendor payments, vendor master management, and Travel & Expense (T&E) processes along with strong accounting fundamentals and SAP experience.
Key Responsibilities:
Manage end-to-end Procure-to-Pay (P2P) operations including invoice processing, vendor payments, vendor reconciliations, vendor master management, and T&E processing.
Ensure timely and accurate processing of invoices in compliance with company policies, accounting standards, and defined SLAs.
Perform invoice verification, PO/GRN matching, discrepancy resolution, and payment processing activities.
Maintain and update vendor master data with proper documentation, approvals, and internal controls.
Handle vendor and stakeholder queries effectively and ensure timely issue resolution.
Support month-end and year-end closing activities related to Accounts Payable and P2P processes.
Ensure compliance with Indian statutory requirements including GST, TDS, and related accounting regulations.
Adhere to SOPs, audit requirements, compliance standards, and internal financial controls.
Coordinate with procurement, finance, treasury, auditors, and business teams for smooth process execution.
Monitor process accuracy, turnaround time, aging, and other operational KPIs to ensure process efficiency.
Identify opportunities for process improvements and contribute towards operational excellence initiatives.
Work independently with minimal supervision in a fast-paced Shared Services environment.
Required Qualifications & Skills:
Graduate in Commerce/Accounting (B.Com) or equivalent qualification.
10+ years of relevant experience in Procure-to-Pay (P2P) / Accounts Payable operations.
Must have experience in managing a team.
Strong understanding of end-to-end P2P lifecycle and accounting concepts.
Mandatory hands-on experience working on SAP.
Understanding of Indian accounting practices and statutory compliance including GST and TDS.
Good verbal and written communication skills.
Strong analytical, problem-solving, and organizational abilities.
Good working knowledge of MS Excel.
Experience working in Shared Services / GCC / large corporate environment preferred.
Ideal Candidate Profile:
The ideal candidate is a self-driven finance professional with strong Procure-to-Pay operational expertise, sound accounting knowledge, SAP proficiency, and understanding of Indian statutory compliance requirements. The candidate should possess good communication and stakeholder management skills, demonstrate ownership and attention to detail, and be capable of managing transactional activities independently in a process-driven Shared Services environment.