---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Head – Product Development & Innovation (Activewear)",
  "department": "RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT / PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT",
  "division": "MANUFACTURING & PLANT OPERATIONS",
  "yoe_band": "12+",
  "seniority_label": "Vice President / Chief Officer",
  "source_doc": "Activewear - JD.docx, Activewear -Product Development and Innovation Head.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

Division
Denim
Location
Ahmedabad
Department
Operations
Version Date
Reports to
Administrative
Aamir Akhtar
Reportees
Nil
Function
Aamir Akhtar
Team Size
Nil
Key Purpose of the Job
To lead the activewear ( casual wear at work or at sports) business for its Apparel & Textile Industry with thorough experience/exposure in Fabric manufacturing, Apparel Marketing, Strategic Sourcing, Pricing, Innovation / development, & quality of Fabrics for leading sports, leisure apparel brands.
Major responsibilities:
Develop new products for our foray into athleisure and performance fabrics space in line with market requirements and business opportunity.
Focused on Sustaining ,Transformative & Disruptive Product Innovation
Building the Sportswear Business through seasonal newness & material innovation
In depth product knowledge, insights on cutting edge innovation and overall understanding of athleisure business
Plan requirement for modern equipment and machinery needed to setup facility to manufacture the products
Design and setup end to end processes for efficient functioning of the unit
Setup and oversee continuous new product development for business growth
Assist in recruitment of senior individuals to head various functions of the business.
Assist in raw material sourcing strategy
Educational and Experience
Textile Engineering and Post-graduation in Operations would be an added advantage.
Skills and Competencies
Decision making
Strategic Planning
Innovative Thinking
Adaptability
Team Management
Target Oriented
Authentic Leadership
Operation Management
Companies to target : Nike, Adidas, Reebok, Underarmour , Columbia, Timberland, The North face, L Bean, Puma, VF Corporation, Paul & Shark, Speedo, Umbro, Kelme, Quick Silver, Vans, NB (New Balance),Oakley, Nan Yang Textile

We are one.
Yet, we are many.
We are a lifestyle conglomerate that’s also building low cost homes. A pioneer of denim that’s pioneering sanitation solutions. We are a global apparel leader that’s driving new age agricultural practices. A wearable technology manufacturer that’s also supporting economic development of tribal women. A state-of-the-art protective gear designer that’s transforming water management.
That’s where a 1.4 billion dollar institution stands today. Where we aren’t just driven by bottom lines and profits, but want to drive social impact. Where our CSR and sustainability initiatives are slowly but surely changing lives and making a difference to thousands. From being just a textile company, we’ve come a long way and are striving every day to create opportunities where none exist.  42,000 employees across verticals ranging from retail, advanced materials and environmental solutions to real estate, apparel and agriculture, believe that at Arvind, the possibilities are endless. It just depends on how you fashion them. It’s this philosophy that has helped us touch people’s lives through innovative and pioneering solutions since 1931. And it’s this philosophy that continues to drive us to change tomorrow for the better.
Welcome to Arvind.
Welcome to a world of fashioning possibilities.
LEADERSHIP PROFILE
MR. SANJAY S. LALBHAI
Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Sanjay S. Lalbhai, 60 years, is the Chairman and Managing Director of the Company. He is a Science Graduate with a Master's degree in Business Management and has been associated with the Company for more than 35 years. He also holds directorships in Arvind Lifestyle Brands Limited, Arvind Retail Limited, Arvind Brands & Retail Limited, Torrent Pharmaceuticals Limited, Arvind Worldwide Inc., USA, Arvind Worldwide (M) Inc.
MR. PUNIT S LALBHAI
Executive Director
Mr. Punit Lalbhai is the Executive Director of Arvind Limited. He is currently working on building new businesses for the company such as Advanced Materials, Engineering & Agribusiness.
He is an MBA from INSEAD (France) specializing in Strategy and General Management, along with a Post-Graduate degree in Masters of Environmental Science from Yale University. He also holds a Bachelors degree in Science (Conservation Biology) from University of California, USA.
MR. KULIN LALBHAI
Executive Director
Mr. Kulin Lalbhai is an MBA from Harvard Business School (USA), along with a Bachelors degree in Science (Electrical Engineering) from Stanford University, USA. He has held several leadership positions during his academic role including serving as Co-President of Family Business Club at Harvard, Associate Director for Stanford Asia Technology Initiative and also serving as Conference Co-Chair for the Harvard-India Conference.
He is passionate about Retail Industry and B2C businesses and has researched extensively on Disruptive Business Models and Online Space.
Job Title
Head – Product Innovation Active wear
The Scope of the Assignment
To Head the Product Development & Innovation function for Active wear Business ( casual wear at work or at sports) for its Textile and Apparel Industry.
Reporting Manager
Mr. Punit Lalbhai, Executive Director
Location
Ahmedabad , Gujarat, India
Key Result Areas:
Develop new products for our foray in Active wear fabrics & apparels in line with market requirements and business opportunity.
Focused on Sustaining, Transformative & Disruptive Product Innovation
Build Business through seasonal product newness & material innovation
In depth product knowledge, insights on cutting edge innovation and overall understanding of Activewear business
Lead the team of Fabric product development from fiber to the designing of the fabric & fabric to apparel
Collaborate projects for material development with supplier
Understand customer trends and create new products in order to establish our business in the market
Present seasonal collections based on customer needs and forecasts/ and co-create with customers
Setup and oversee continuous new product development for business growth
Assist in raw material sourcing strategy
Skill sets and experience:
Bachelors / Masters in Textile Engineering with minimum 15 years of experience.
Has to be very strong on the technical side of textile manufacturing and should understand all the manufacturing processes in detail.
Should have strong technical expertise in product development on sports wear/ active wear
Commercialization ability and strong result orientation.
Hands-on approach to solving product development challenges.
Must be a goal oriented professional and capable enough to take hard decisions.