---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Merchandising",
  "department": "MERCHANDISING & BUYING",
  "division": "RETAIL & BRANDS (ARVIND BRANDS)",
  "yoe_band": "12+",
  "seniority_label": "Vice President / Chief Officer",
  "source_doc": "Chief Merchandising Officer_Internet.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

Role
Chief Merchandising Officer
Grade
BM
Division
Arvind Internet Limited
Location
Bangalore
Team Size
Initially 5-10 people then will increase to 30-50 people in 2-3 years
Reports To
COO or ED
Key Purpose of the Job
To manage all aspects of the supply chain including procurement, pricing, merchandising ,planning, inventory management, new product range execution, logistics and distribution in a timely and cost effective manner to meet company’s sales and contribution targets.
Major responsibilities:
Responsible for all Arvind Brands, brands of 3rd party & foreign  JV / collaborations
Will own the complete merchandising operations
Will be responsible for owning the P&L accountability of Merchandising activity
1.  Merchandise planning:  Plan for seasonal merchandising for each product category for profit maximization.
Ensure that the Sales Plan for various product ranges meets the sales targets & the budgeted contribution targets.
Plan re- order levels and replenishments to minimize stock outs and optimize sales. Plan budgets and present sales forecasts and figures for all product ranges.
2. Pricing:  Ensure conformance to budget contributions based on pricing for each product line. Monitor product
margins at all times to ensure no dilution of product profitability. Review price points for weak selling product
categories, to implement solutions for slow lines and ends of range. Implement markdowns for non-selling
goods based on sales performance/ stock levels etc.
3. Merchandising & Inventory Management: Responsible for procurement activities related to store merchandise
based on seasonal procurement schedules. Develop Terms And Conditions (TAC) for procurement activity. Ensure that these are in line with the merchandise planning to ensure availability of merchandise at the correct time in the store for sales. Ensure re-order levels are met and maintenance of inventory as per defined standards. Control stock/ inventory levels based on seasonal forecasts, sales data, buying trends etc.
Analyse stock movements on a daily basis for efficient inventory management at the warehouse and stores to meet the inventory levels as per plan. Minimize inventory holding cost and monitor inventory ageing.
Market intelligence on competitor’s data for comparison of products, range, quality, pricing and any general related information which may affect procurement.
Ensure optimum cost in procurement and reduce lead times without compromising on product quality  to improve supply chain productivity. Measure and monitor time to market.
Implement promotions and mark downs for slow moving lines, ends of range, excess stock. Liase with retail operations team, marketing, suppliers etc. for the purpose.
Ensure that all procurement activity meets the targets of costs, timeliness and quality. Bring a special focus to troublesome qualities.
Procurement MIS with Deviation Reports with reasons for deviations & root cause analysis to reduce such
incidences in future.
4. Logistics and Distribution: : Ensure efficient management of merchandise to various stores from warehouse in
time to meet the sales targets.Control storage and in-transit losses and undertake preventive & corrective
steps for the same. Budget warehousing and distribution costs and monitor actual expenses against the
budget. Ensure smooth functioning with suppliers and service providers. Ensure legal compliances and
documentation pertaining to logistics and distribution.
5. Financial Monitoring and MIS Reporting:  Analyse and report on : ROI, stock turnover rate, markdown goods %, shrinkage to net sales , average selling price, ageing, reorder levels, liquidation plans etc.
6 New Product Development (NPD):  New product development and commercialization strategies across stores to be planed & executed. Responsible for the introduction of new product launches across stores.
Educational and Experience
Graduate specialization in NID or NIIFT
Minimum 10+ years of experience
Fully conversant with all qualitative and technical aspects of apparel and other  fashion/ lifestyle merchandise.
Should have handled more than one brand, looking for exp. In handling shoes & accessories
Skills and Competencies
Excellent in understanding the Products
Understand the customer dynamics
Planning and organizing skills.
Strong analytical and creative thinking skills.
Meticulous- with an ability to pay attention to detail.
Good communicator with strong interpersonal and negotiation skills.
Problem solving and decision making skills.
Presentation skills.
Build and Manage Teams