---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Merchandising",
  "department": "MERCHANDISING & BUYING",
  "division": "RETAIL & BRANDS (ARVIND BRANDS)",
  "yoe_band": "5–8",
  "seniority_label": "Manager / Senior Manager",
  "source_doc": "Chief Merchandising Officer.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

Arvind Limited
Name
Ribu Mathai
Division
Ankur Textiles
Role Title
Merchandising Mgr.
Location
Ahmedabad
Grade / Designation
M3 / Chief Manager
Cadre
Department
Voiles Business
Vacancy start Date
Organizational Relationship:
a. Reporting Relationship: Roles directly reporting to
Serial No.
Role Title
Nature of Reporting: Functional / Administrative
Chief  Mgr.(Merchandising & Supply Chain)
Functional and Administrative
b. Supervisory Relationship: Roles being directly supervised
Serial No.
Role Title
Nature of Reporting: Functional / Administrative
1
None
Role Definition:
The role exists to manage all aspects of the supply chain including procurement, pricing, merchandising , assortment planning, inventory management, new product range execution, logistics and distribution in a timely and cost effective manner to meet company’s sales and contribution targets.
Role Responsibilities:
Merchandise planning:
Work with the reporting officer in seasonal merchandise planning for each product category.
Plan product ranges and prepare sales and stock plans to meet the sales targets. Ensure that such  planning meets the budgeted contribution targets.
Plan re- order levels and replenishments to minimize stock outs and optimize sales.
Work with the reporting officer to establish prices for profit maximization to manage the performance of the seasonal ranges.
Plan budgets and present sales forecasts and figures for new ranges.
Pricing:
Carry out product line and product profitability analysis on a regular basis along with the reporting officer to ensure that ensure conformance to budgeted contributions. Work with the reporting officer to revise pricing and the product mix to achieve the above.
Monitor product margins at all times to ensure no dilution of product profitability.
Review price points for weak selling product categories. Work with the reporting office to implement solutions for slow lines and ends of range.
Implement markdowns for non-selling goods based on sales performance/ stock levels etc.
Merchandising & Inventory Management:
Responsible for procurement activities related to store merchandise based on seasonal procurement schedules.
Develop Terms And Conditions (TAC)  for procurement activity. Ensure that these are in line with the merchandise planning to ensure availability of merchandise at the correct time in the store for sales.
Ensure that the order booking process is carried out as per these TACs. Monitor TACs of supplies and delivery schedules to ensure conformance to delivery dates.
Ensure re-order levels are met and maintenance of inventory as per defined standards. Control stock/ inventory levels based on seasonal forecasts, sales data, buying trends etc.
Ensure replenishments of merchandise at the warehouse and stores to meet the inventory levels specified for various product categories. Manage store-wise and product category-wise control of inventory turnover.
Analyse stock movements on a daily basis for efficient inventory management. Minimize inventory holding cost and monitor inventory ageing.
Work with the reporting officer to attain shorter merchandise replenishment cycle.
Resolve issues of slides in procurement delivery dates and update the retail operations team, the reporting officer and the EBO head for unavoidable delays and take necessary steps to mitigate the same. Monitor such exceptions and delays on a daily basis.
Track the high demand categories and ensure that these are sourced optimally to minimize chances of stock outs and lost sales.
Carry out competitor shopping for comparison of products, range, quality, pricing and any general related information which may affect procurement.
Work towards reduction in procurement costs and lead times without compromising on product quality  to improve supply chain productivity. Measure and monitor time to market.
Implement promotions and mark downs for slow moving lines, ends of range, excess stock. Liase with retail operations team, marketing, suppliers etc. for the purpose.
Procure store consumables and packaging material at optimum costs and in a timely manner.
Ensure that all procurement activity meets the targets of costs, timeliness and quality. Bring a special focus to troublesome qualities.
Responsible for monthly report generation of Source to Plan Deviation Reports, identifying reasons for deviations and performing root cause analysis to reduce the incidence of such deviations in future.
Ensure implementation of the standard operating procedures for merchandise handling and movement.
Logistics and Distribution:
Ensure efficient management of merchandise to various stores in time to meet the sales targets.
Manage the transportation of such merchandise to stores and the logistics from the store to the warehouse.
Control storage and in-transit losses and undertake preventive steps for the same.
Budget warehousing and distribution costs and monitor actual expenses against the budget.
Ensure smooth functioning with suppliers and service providers.
Monitor physical receipt discrepancies and take corrective action wherever required.
Ensure legal compliances and documentation pertaining to logistics and distribution.
Financial Monitoring and MIS Reporting:
Analyse category-wise product profitability at various stages of the order cycle to ensure the targets of GMROI and GMROF are met and to enhance to enhance accuracy of merchandising decisions and quicker stock turns.
Carry out contribution reconciliation to bridge gaps between actual and predicted contributions.
Analyse poor contribution, slow moving categories. Work with the reporting officer  to initiate corrective actions to maximize contributions.
Analyse and report on : GMROI, stock turnover rate, markdown goods %, shrinkage to net sales , average selling price, ageing, reorder levels, liquidation plans etc.
New Product Development (NPD):
Work with the reporting officer to execute product development and commercialization strategies across stores. Work with the reporting officer to expand the product portfolio and the depth of the product mix .
Keep abreast of market developments- specifically related to pricing, fashion trends, customer requirements, competitor’s product mix etc. to facilitate the above.
Work with the retail operations team to ensure that the “look” of the seasonal product lines and the design range is representative of customer’s demands, current fashion trends and seasonal requirements.
Work to achieve sales/ contribution expectations of product ranges by targeting a high conversion efficiency to orders.
Responsible for the introduction of new product launches across stores.
S No.
KRA DESCRIPTION
TARGET
WEIGHTAGE
PERIODICITY OF
MEASUREMENT
Work Environment:
Does this role have special requirements (eg. shift working, traveling, exposure to hazardous working conditions, antecedent requirements for legal/ police verifications etc.)
If so describe:	Yes   	No
Role requires frequent traveling to meet vendors and to store locations throughout India.
Role requires traveling for coordinating merchandising and supply chain activities.
Educational Qualifications/Experience:
Educational Qualifications:
Academic / Technical:
Business/ Marketing related degree from a recognized institute or university or equivalent, with at least 50% marks or equivalent CGPA.
Experience:
5+ years experience of which at least three years should be in handling merchandising and supply chain functions for an apparel retail organization.
Strong knowledge of retail merchandising and supply chain activities, budgeting, forecasting etc.
Fully conversant with all qualitative and technical aspects of apparel and other  fashion/ lifestyle merchandise.
Key Skills:
Technical Skills  :
Essential:
Proficient in use of MS Office 2000 or later( particularly Excel and Word)
Internet and email.
Strong knowledge of and exposure to Retail MIS/ ERP.
Desirable:
Knowledge of  ERP
Behavioural Skills :
Excellent planning and organizing skills.
Strong analytical and creative thinking skills.
Meticulous- with an ability to pay attention to detail.
Time management - ability to work under a deadline driven work environment.
Good communicator with strong interpersonal and negotiation skills.
Problem solving and decision making skills.
Professional appearance and presentation skills.
√