---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Technical Support Associate",
  "department": "INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY",
  "division": "CORPORATE / SHARED FUNCTIONS",
  "yoe_band": "2–5",
  "seniority_label": "Senior Executive / Assistant Manager",
  "source_doc": "Technical_Support_Associate_JD.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

ARVIND GCC
Role Title:	Technical Support Associate
Function:	Information Technology - GCC IT Operations
Reports To:	IT Support Manager
Experience:	3-5 years; prior experience in a GCC/shared services environment preferred
Location:	Ahmedabad
Role Overview
The Technical Support Associate handles the day-to-day technical needs of GCC users fixing what's broken, setting up what's new, and keeping people working. This is a hands-on, ticket-by-ticket role covering Tier 1 and Tier 2 support, delivered in person at the desk and remotely. It's an execution role, not a planning one: the IT Support Manager sets direction and process; this role is where that process gets carried out, issue by issue, every day.
What You'll Do
Pick up tickets, calls, and walk-ups from GCC users and resolve hardware, software, and account issues  laptops, printers, peripherals, OS, and standard business applications.
Provide deskside support for issues that need a physical visit, and remote support for everything else, using standard remote-assistance tools.
Set up new laptops and desktops for joiners  imaging, software installs, and standard configuration  and handle returns/recovery when people exit or move.
Handle routine Active Directory and Microsoft 365 tasks as assigned  password resets, account unlocks, mailbox access, basic license/license-group changes.
Troubleshoot everyday connectivity issues  Wi-Fi drops, VPN access, network printer setup  and escalate to the network team when the fix is beyond desk-level access.
Log every ticket properly: clear notes, accurate categorization, and timely updates so users always know where their issue stands.
Recognize when something is beyond Tier 1–2 scope and escalate it to the IT Support Manager or the right specialist team, with the diagnostic steps you've already tried.
Keep IT asset records current  tagging new equipment, updating allocations, flagging anything missing or due for return.
Must-Have Skills
Hands-on troubleshooting on Windows 11 hardware, OS, and common business software.
Basic Active Directory and Microsoft 365 administration  account, password, and access tasks.
Comfortable doing both deskside visits and remote sessions in the same day.
Basic networking know-how  Wi-Fi, VPN, network printers  enough to fix the simple stuff and describe the complex stuff clearly when escalating.
Clear, patient communication with users who don't think in technical terms.
Disciplined ticket hygiene  nothing falls through the cracks.
Good to Have
Experience supporting a GCC, shared services centre, or similar multi-business-unit setup.
Basic exposure to O365 administration
CompTIA A+ or an equivalent foundational certification.
Familiarity with imaging/deployment tools such as Intune or Autopilot.
Experience & Education
3-5 years in a helpdesk, desktop support, or technical support role, with real Tier 1-2 ticket ownership  not just call-taking. Bachelor's degree in IT, Computer Science, or a related field, or equivalent hands-on experience.
What We Offer
A front-row seat to every part of the GCC's IT environment, working directly under the IT Support Manager, with room to grow into Tier 3 specialist or systems administration work as you build experience here.