---METADATA---
{
  "role_family": "Head – Product Development (Dress Shirts)",
  "department": "RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT / PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT",
  "division": "MANUFACTURING & PLANT OPERATIONS",
  "yoe_band": "12+",
  "seniority_label": "Vice President / Chief Officer",
  "source_doc": "About Arvind and JD- Dress Shirts Category.docx",
  "extracted_date": "2026-06-25",
  "approved_by": "seed",
  "generation_version": "v1.0",
  "feedback_score": null
}
---END METADATA---

We are one.
Yet, we are many.
We are a lifestyle conglomerate that’s also building low cost homes. A pioneer of denim that’s pioneering sanitation solutions. We are a global apparel leader that’s driving new age agricultural practices. A wearable technology manufacturer that’s also supporting economic development of tribal women. A state-of-the-art protective gear designer that’s transforming water management.
That’s where a 1.4 billion dollar institution stands today. Where we aren’t just driven by bottom lines and profits, but want to drive social impact. Where our CSR and sustainability initiatives are slowly but surely changing lives and making a difference to thousands. From being just a textile company, we’ve come a long way and are striving every day to create opportunities where none exist.  42,000 employees across verticals ranging from retail, advanced materials and environmental solutions to real estate, apparel and agriculture, believe that at Arvind, the possibilities are endless. It just depends on how you fashion them. It’s this philosophy that has helped us touch people’s lives through innovative and pioneering solutions since 1931. And it’s this philosophy that continues to drive us to change tomorrow for the better.
Welcome to Arvind.
Welcome to a world of fashioning possibilities.
LEADERSHIP PROFILE
MR. SANJAY S. LALBHAI
Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. Sanjay S. Lalbhai, 60 years, is the Chairman and Managing Director of the Company. He is a Science Graduate with a Master's degree in Business Management and has been associated with the Company for more than 35 years. He also holds directorships in Arvind Lifestyle Brands Limited, Arvind Retail Limited, Arvind Brands & Retail Limited, Amol Decalite Limited, Torrent Pharmaceuticals Limited, Arvind Worldwide Inc., USA, Arvind Worldwide (M) Inc., Arvind Overseas (M) Ltd.  Arvind Spinning Ltd., Mauritius and Arvind Textile Mills Limited, Bangladesh.
MR. PUNIT S LALBHAI
Executive Director
Mr. Punit Lalbhai is the Executive Director of Arvind Limited. He is currently working on building new businesses for the company such as Advanced Materials, Engineering & Agribusiness.
He is an MBA from INSEAD (France) specializing in Strategy and General Management, along with a Post-Graduate degree in Masters of Environmental Science from Yale University. He also holds a Bachelors degree in Science (Conservation Biology) from University of California, USA.
MR. KULIN LALBHAI
Executive Director
Mr. Kulin Lalbhai is an MBA from Harvard Business School (USA), along with a Bachelors degree in Science (Electrical Engineering) from Stanford University, USA. He has held several leadership positions during his academic role including serving as Co-President of Family Business Club at Harvard, Associate Director for Stanford Asia Technology Initiative and also serving as Conference Co-Chair for the Harvard-India Conference.
He is passionate about Retail Industry and B2C businesses and has researched extensively on Disruptive Business Models and Online Space.
The Scope of the Assignment
To consult on the Product Development & Process Development function for Dress Shirt Category for its Textile.
Reporting Manager
Mr. Punit Lalbhai, Executive Director
Key Result Areas:
Develop new products for our foray in Dress shirt category for fabrics in line with market requirements and business opportunity.
Should have worked extensively in Dress Shirt Category, yarn dyed, specialty in Fabric Finishing
Focused on Sustaining ,Transformative & Disruptive Product Innovation
Help building the Business through seasonal product newness & material innovation
In depth product knowledge, insights on cutting edge innovation and overall understanding of Dress shirt Category  business
Will be responsible for handling complete Fabric product development from fiber to the designing of the fabric
Developing the product range in yarn  for men’s and women’s wear
Liaise with design, product & process development team
Understand customer trends and create new products in order to establish our business in the market
Setup and oversee continuous new product development for business growth
Assist in raw material sourcing strategy
Skill sets and experience:
Bachelors / Masters in Textile Engineering with minimum 15 years of experience.
Has to be very strong on the technical side of textile manufacturing and should understand all the manufacturing processes in detail.
Should have strong technical expertise in product development on woven fabrics
Commercialization ability and strong result orientation.
Hands-on approach to solving product development challenges.
Must be a goal oriented professional and capable enough to take hard decisions
Preferable Companies to Target :
Luthai Textile Co. Ltd., Lufeng Company Ltd., Jiangsu Lianfa Textile Co. Ltd, Penn Fabrics, Younger, Esquel etc. who have experience of working with PVH heritage Dress Shirt Design, R& D teams would be apt for the requirement.